Game consists of two 20-minute phases. Its played between two teams of two members each, but at least one member from each team would also suffice.

During the first 20 minute phase, called 'Solvertaire', one member from each team solves mathematical questions.

Each member can solve a maximum of 25 questions during the time; they choose the difficulties of each of the questions.
Questions with higher difficulty, if answered correctly, accumulate higher 'Energy' (the games main currency)
The difficulties are Easy, Medium, Hard [E,M,H].
Energy gained increases with difficulty, but the specific values of [E,M,H] have to be determined by examining how they are utilized in the second stage.

The second 20 minute phase is the actual card paly part, called 'MathJack', and again, one member from each team faces off against each other.
This phase is played with a standard 52 card deck and pad of sticky notes.

There are three piles:
Number (N) Pile: Numbered cards of the 52 card deck (2-10 for each suit)  [36 cards]
Operations (O) Pile: An inexhaustable pad of sticky notes [Infinite notes, but realistically around 50]
Special (S) Pile: The reamining cards of the 52 card deck, which we will call the special cards (Ace, King, Queen, Jack for each suit) [16 cards]

The Phase will consist of five turns. Every turn, players will spend energy to draw cards from the 3 piles. 
A random 'Cap' target will be introduced for both player.
They must build an expression using their numbered cards and operation notes. 

They can put the following operator symbols on their notes: multiplication, division, addition or subtraction. 
They can then use these between their Numbered cards. 
Otherwise, they can use a blank sticky note to concatenate two cards forming a two-digit number (but no more than that). (This doesn't work on the 10 card)
So an expression with n Numbered Cards will have n-1 Operation cards, with each expression having alternating N and O cards.

The ‘Answer’ to this expression must not exceed the Cap number. 
A feasile range of values for the Cap is yet to be decided.
Any answer over the cap is taken as zero. 
If an answer is not an integer, it will be rounded down to the nearest whole number. 
The 'Answer' is added to “Aggregate” score of the team (which is initialized at zero).
PLayers can use a maximum of seven items (max four cards and three notes) to build their expression, so possible expression have one of these combinations:
(4N,3O),(3N,2O),(2N,1O),(1N)

Special cards have special abilities which can increase your aggregate significantly or give you rule-bending capabilities etc. 
The players generally use their special cards after the answer, but some abilities may be used during the turn.
Players can play a maximum of one and a minimum of zero specials per turn.
The ACE cards are the aggregate-increasing cards triggered if condiitons are met by the expression 
ACEs need to be carefully balanced thourgh analyzing how often they trigger and how well they score.
The JACK cards bend rules.
The KING cards pertain to energy and cost of cards.
The QUEEN cards are related more closely to expressions and miscallaneous abilities.


To sit the limit for cards/notes in hand, it sensible to have 4 Numbered cards and 3 Operation cards so the players can use their full hand while making a seven item expression.
The special card limit should be set at 2, because only one special cad at a time would severely limit the players creatively, as they would try to build their expression around the one special ability.
Additionally, with 2 S cards, players can save one for future and work towards getting a hand that utilizes the abiity most efficiently.

A major issue is the cost of drawing the cards. Special cards need to be more costly than the other two to avoid hoarding of special abilities.
The Numbered and Operation cards can be of the same value but it wouldnt be wrong if Operation cards are costlier.
The costs [N,O,S] need to be determined by somehow balancing them with energy accumulated druing the first stage.

Whichever player accumulates more aggregrate points across the five turns Wins.
